    Title: Git koans
    Date: 2017-05-21T18:59:32
    Tags: git, coding, rant

Git Koans don't really exist. I can't be arsed to make it, though. There are
some anecdotes called Git Koans, but as far as I can tell there is nothing
similar to Clojure/Ruby Koans where you get hands-on experience fixing things
incrementally, from tiny mistakes all the way up the ladder.

Basically: "Here's broken shit. Fix it." "Yay, you fixed it. Here's more broken
shit. Fix it." Turn on continuous integration and use post-commit hooks as the
koan runner. Eventually, you fix all the problems in the broken repo.

It actually wouldn't be very hard. You can pretty much use any kind of make
system to build a repo then fuck it up per order. The result would be hands-on
experience fixing fuckups in git, from small to huge. Hell: a joker shell script
that takes all the commands used to evolve a repo, and randomly inserts typos
and wrong commands to fuck it up (Maybe just swap the entered command with one
which is often accidentally typed instead). "Here's a fork of Foo that's been utterly
fucked. Walk through its history and unfuck it."

You could also do local/remote fuckups pretty easily too. Have a shell script
that purposely messes up upstream/downstream relations, purposely screws up a
merge, etc. Nightmare mode: multiple remotes are created, each randomly screwed
up to simulate others trying, unsuccessfully, to fix their own messed up repos.

As far as I can tell, this doesn't exist. The only time you're ever fixing a
fuckup is in actual goddamn repos during your job. The *only* time you will ever
unfuck an arbitrarily broken repo is when your ass depends on it.

This means that for most people, git is a [cargo
cult](https://people.csail.mit.edu/sperezde/oopsla16.pdf). You don't know how to
unfuck things, you're doing shit like cp -R repo repo.old. Imagine if you wrote
code this way: the *only* time you ever fix bugs is in production code. The only
time you ever fix a bug is when your ass is on the line. You'd also do cargo
cult bullshit. You'd be that happy asshole sloppily commenting out lines of code
to see what's wrong. In $Lang the Hard Way style tutorials, it's heavily
emphasized that you should break stuff in order to learn what happens, and how
to fix it when you do inevitably do it by accident. Yet, I would put money on
the bet that the vast majority of git users have never purposely broken a repo
in order to learn how to fix it. How many purposely messed up a commit or 3 in
order to get hands-on experience with git reflog? How many intentionally
committed to the wrong branch so they could learn how to stash pop. How many
purposely introduced a painful merge conflict in order to learn the right
(painless) way to resolve it? Purposely broke the build in order to learn how to
use bisect?

In code, it's unthinkable that you would have no experience of fixing bugs
outside of "we need this fixed yesterday" situations. Yet with git, that's the
case. No experience, at all, of unfucking repos that you don't depend on for
rent or whatever. The average git user has no idea how to fix mistakes they
make, and every mistake they do have to fix is only ever on a real repo. 

Look at [Oh Shit Git](http://ohshitgit.com/). It lists very common mistakes, in
plain English, and explains how to fix them. I guarantee that the vast majority
of git users have never *purposely* made those mistakes in order to see how to
fix them. For many, the first time they have to fix a mistake, that mistake is
new to them and they end up on ohshitgit or stackoverflow typing commands that
may as well be mystic incantations.
